.\" (C) Copyright 2013 Scott Leggett <scott@sl.id.au>,
.\" (C) Copyright 2015 Christoph Gysin <christoph.gysin@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH PASYSTRAY 1 "November  9, 2013"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
pasystray \- PulseAudio controller for the system tray
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pasystray
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pasystray
enables control of various PulseAudio server settings from the X11 system tray.
Clicking the tray icon will display a graphical menu, allowing the user to:
.IP \[bu]
adjust the volume of streams and sinks/sources
.IP \[bu]
transfer streams between sinks/sources
.IP \[bu]
switch the default sink/source
.IP \[bu]
set the default server (PULSE_SERVER)
.IP \[bu]
detect network PulseAudio services
.IP \[bu]
rename devices
.SH MOUSE BINDINGS
Status icon:
.IP \[bu]
Middle-click / Alt + Left-click: toggle mute, default sink
.IP \[bu]
Ctrl + Middle-click / Ctrl + Alt + Left-click: toggle mute, default source
.IP \[bu]
Scroll up/down: adjust volume, default sink
.IP \[bu]
Ctrl + Scroll up/down: adjust volume, default source
.LP
Source/Sink menu item:
.IP \[bu]
Scroll up/down: adjust volume
.IP \[bu]
Left-click: set as default sink/source
.IP \[bu]
Middle-click / Alt + Left-click: toggle mute
.IP \[bu]
Right-click: rename
.LP
Playback/record stream menu item:
.IP \[bu]
Scroll up/down: adjust volume
.IP \[bu]
Middle-click: toggle mute
.SH OPTIONAL PULSEAUDIO MODULES
.B pasystray
can make use of the following PulseAudio modules:
.IP \[bu]
module-device-manager - device renaming
.IP \[bu]
module-zeroconf-discover - network device discovery
.LP
These modules may need to be loaded, using e.g.
.BR pactl (1)
or pasystray itself.
.SH REMOTE SINKS/SOURCES
In order to detect remote sinks/source, as well as enabling
module-zeroconf-discover locally, module-zeroconf-publish must be enabled on
the remote server.
.SH REMOTE SERVER
As with most PulseAudio-aware applications, the environment variable
PULSE_SERVER may be set to the address of a remote host in order to use
.B pasystray
to control the server running on that host.
.SH OPTIONS
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show the program version.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Print debugging information.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-volume-max=N
Set the maximum volume (in percent).
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-volume-inc=N
Set the volume increment.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-no-notify
Disable all notifications.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-always-notify
Enable notifications for all changes in pulsaudio.
.TP
.B \-\-include-monitors
Show monitor sources.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-sync-default
Sync default sink on input stream sink change.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-sync-streams
Sync sink of all streams on default sink change.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pulseaudio (1),
.BR pactl (1).
.PP
Homepage: https://github.com/christophgysin/pasystray
